In this clip we're going to take a look at the root account and
how to control the security of that account.
So when you sign up for your account for the first time,
Amazon likes to call it the initial business arrangement,
so you'll sign up, you'll have an email address,
that's how you get to Amazon the first time,
across the internet, and password.
You're the root account, this is the account which cannot be locked down,
you have full access to anything that you want to order within AWS cloud family,
you can do so, there's no restrictions.
The account cannot be disabled.
So don't use this account for daily operations.
Now do people do this?
Of course they do.
But you don't want to get into a situation where somebody gets those
credentials and can wreck havoc on your account.
Anybody that you allow to use that account is the root person.
This is totally outside of IAM control,
there is no control restrictions that you can do on that account,
so pretty important in the corporate world.
So to manage that account,
you better take those credentials and store them in a physical safe.
Multi-factor authentication should also be enabled on the root account and
there's both hardware and virtual devices that can be supported.
Now the virtual device has to support the TOTP standard,
this is the time-based one time password standard,
and one of the virtual devices you could use is Google authenticator.
Hardware device, Gemalto devices,
and there's another way of doing the MFA and that's through SMS,
but those devices are not compatible with the root account,
have to have a higher level of security for that.
So best practices for your root account,
first thing, create an IAM role with full admin privileges.
Then change that root account, the password,
to a random string, and then what you want to do is don't save the password,
throw it away, so you don't know how to get in with that credential.
Lock it up into the safe and there are a couple of reasons
why you might have to use that account.
Use the forgot password to gain access to that account.
So a couple of best practices to take a look at.
So when do I need the root account?
Well if you have to change the root account information,
maybe that email address, you're not going to use it any longer,
think of the times you may have set up a website and you forgot
the credentials of that website and then you couldn't actually
talk to the registrar about that website because you didn't know
what the credentials were.
So again, think of that when you're looking at the importance of this account.
The next time you might need the root account,
you may have to set up or deactivate account billing.
If you want to transfer a Route 53 domain registration to another customer,
another account, you'll need the root account.
If you want to close the AWS account you have to use
the account that you started with.
If you want to submit a pen test request to test your public IP addresses,
and finally the number one reason that you need your root account for,
can I have a drum roll please, okay,
the number one reason is to buy stuff on Amazon.
We all have that account, right?
Well you know I meant AWS.
amazon.
com, but are you using your root account for AWS to buy stuff on Amazon?
So let's look at some of these concepts in a demo.
In this demo we're going to look at managing root account security.
So I've logged into the console.
There's a user account on screen.
How do I know this user account isn't the root account?
Well there's a clear clue in front of us,
this user Mark has some policy attached.
Policies aren't attached to the root user because the root
user could do anything that it wants to do.
So let's log out.
We'll go back into the console and the console is ready for me to log on as an
IAM user because I have logged on previously as an IAM user,
but if I use this link at the bottom, sign-in using root account credentials,
it'll give in and say alright email address,
password, let's go in.
So if I go down to IAM, it will tell me that I should delete my root access keys,
I should activate MFA on my root account.
Those are the two pieces that are going to apply to the root account,
everything else no.
If I go in and look at the users,
I'm not going to see the root user account because the root user
account is above all other accounts that are created.
So let's go back and if I want to delete my root access keys,
I would go in and manage my security credentials and then it would
warn me that hey we know you're the root account,
let's set up some IAM users, we know that,
so let's continue to security credentials and under credentials,
i.
e.
access keys, is where I could make inactive.
So that's where I could remove my access key for my root account.
Now if I go back up to the menu I can also,
if I was going to use the root account I probably should
activate multi-factor authentication.
Clicking Manage MFA,
it would then ask whether I wanted to use a virtual
MFA device or a hardware MFA device.
I could click Next Step and decide which device I was actually
going to use and it would tell me I'd have to do some
installation of software and set this up.
So these are the areas where I would manage the root account security.
The last thing I could do for my root account would be change the password by
going up to my name and going into security credentials,
clicking Continue to security credentials and here's where I could change
the password name or email address for the root account. So there's a look at managing root account security at AWS.